Well, dear brothers and sisters, it is my very great pleasure to welcome you all for this graduation program of the
142nd class of the Watchtower Bible School of Gilead.
We have a satellite locations tied in across the United States branch territory as well as our dear brothers in Canada
And of course in time we expect that this will also be shown to our brothers via
JW Broadcasting. So what a large audience will benefit from our program today?
Well, you students are truly loved. I checked with the Bethel office just yesterday and found out that guests have come
from 40 different countries to be a part of this graduation program. Isn't that wonderful?
So we're very much looking forward to this spiritual feast that's about to take place.
So now if you're able let's stand and sing song number 54
this is the way and then following the song
brother Robert Butler a helper to the publishing committee of the governing body will offer our opening prayer song 54
our marvelous god Jehovah
has the greatest and most far reaching vision
in Job chapter 28 and verse 24
we read for he looks to the ends of the earth and he sees everything under the heavens
well recognizing Jehovah's Almighty power and his perfect
penetrating vision
It's not surprising that the Psalmist prayed to Jehovah and expressed this in Psalm 119 and verse 18
Now notice this very beautiful and heartfelt request that the Psalmist made
He said
open my eyes so that I may see clearly the wonderful things from your law
well now Jehovah has truly fulfilled this prayerful request in our day
even though at 2nd Corinthians chapter 4 4 tells us that Satan the devil has blinded the minds of the unbelievers
Jehovah is opening up the spiritual eyes of honest hearted ones
so that they can see the truth that's coming from his word
and it is truly amazing to see how honest hearted ones around this earth are receiving spiritual
sight from God just take this one experience in May 2015
a Lutheran priest visited the Finland branch office with a pioneer couple
at Bethel she was deeply impressed with the warm loving atmosphere that she saw
after a month she attended the imitate Jesus convention from Friday to Sunday
her workmates at the church asked her to take good notes of the program and to share them
which she did in December 2015 she visited the bishop and resigned from her office after 27
years of service as an active priest the bishop started to cry when she closed the door
after resigning she sent out this message i have just resigned from the church
now it is time for a new life under Jehovah's wise protection
in January of 2016 she started serving as an unbaptized publisher and last year at the regional
convention she was baptized she's now serving as an auxiliary pioneer on a continuous basis
and she says that she wants to have a share in public witnessing with carts close to the church
where she served for decades when i was in this interesting though this is the last comment
this dear sister mate she said as a young girl i made a promise to serve God but it wasn't
until now that i actually realized how God wanted to be served aren't we glad to welcome this
sister into our worldwide brotherhood but going back to that scriptural thought in Psalm 119 verse 18
this is not simply the prayer of honest hearted ones who are in the world really brothers this
is our prayer you see we all want Jehovah to open up our eyes and help us to see his word clearly
now why is that so necessary for all of us well let's just take one simple example from the
scriptures of the faithful man Samuel now Samuel was obviously a very spiritual man he was a person
that was used throughout his life in Jehovah's service but if you look at this account in first
Samuel chapter 16 you'll remember that here uh Jehovah was sending Samuel to anoint one of the
sons of Jesse to become king now if you look at verse 7 look what Jehovah says to Samuel
do not pay attention to his appearance and how tall he is for i have rejected him for the way
man sees is not the way God sees because mere man sees what appears to the eyes but Jehovah sees
into the heart well now do you see the point do you see why we need to beg Jehovah to open our
eyes and help us to see clearly his word you see our imperfection affects our vision doesn't it
our culture the way we were raised our fleshly inclinations can all distort our vision we so much
need Jehovah God to open our eyes and help us so that we can see matters clearly well for the past
74 years Gilead school has been a wonderful tool to help find spiritual men and women
to focus and sharpen their spiritual vision now during your five and a half months of schooling
you've had the pleasure to study God's word now this has not been just a dry academic exercise but
really what you've done is you focused a light upon God's word the Bible now we're not talking
about a little flashlight we're talking about a flood light and what has happened as a result
well Jehovah has helped you to see yourself he's helped you to see the scriptures he's helped you
to see your brothers he's helped you to see your assignments much more clearly through the enlightening
influence of his precious word the Bible well as a result of all of that you are no longer the people
you were when you arrived at Gilead you have changed but now what are you going to do with this
wonderful gift that you have been given by Jehovah this expanded spiritual vision which has
been extended to you well when you think about Gilead this school is something that is very close
to our hearts as Jehovah's people it's tied up with our spiritual parents our spiritual grandparents
with the foundation of the work in so many countries of this earth there is a wonderful spiritual
legacy associated with Gilead well what do you want to do you want to become a part of that legacy
you want to take the gift that you have been given by Jehovah and use it to strengthen and stabilize
the congregations the fields the branch offices where you are going to serve and what a group
you're going to join let me just give you some statistics at the present time Gilead graduates are
serving in many fields of service for example 915 are serving as Bethelites 880 serve as field
missionaries 496 serve as circuit overseers or wives of circuit overseers 244 serve as members
of branch or country committees four serve as governing body helpers and two are members of the
governing body well when you think of all of these individuals who are working hard to advance
kingdom interests around the world how much we want to praise our magnificent our wonderful
God Jehovah for what he's done by means of the Gilead school and by means of his organization to
open our eyes and help us to see his word clearly don't you agree brothers well I'm sure all of us
are looking forward to hearing where our students are going to be going but before we reach that
part in our program it's appropriate that we hear a number of talks that are going to give
words of counsel words of encouragement even words of comfort that will build up not only
the students but all of us who will hear this program first of all we're privileged to hear from
a member of the governing body brother Stephen let he is going to speak to us this morning on the
theme imitate Jehovah's use of memory brother let as you know Ephesians 5 1 tells us to become
imitators of God as beloved children and if we think about it absolutely everything we can learn
about Jehovah's worthy of imitation and that includes his use of memory as we will discuss during
this talk but now first we ask what do we mean by memory well what encyclopedia says this
memory is the faculty of the mind by which information is encoded stored and retrieved but
unfortunately most of us struggle with remembering things we want to remember and not remembering
things we would like to forget see we remember what we want to forget we don't remember what we
want to remember it's a struggle isn't but if you think about it to illustrate this I can't remember
where I left my glasses where did I leave my glasses but I do remember in detail how you
offended me 20 years ago by the way when someone comes up to me at a convention or assembly and says
do you remember my name I say well brother I remember your last name or I remember your first name
but I don't remember your last name your first name is brother right well feel free to use that
little trick if you want to but even though it is a real challenge for us as imperfect humans with
imperfect memories to imitate Jehovah's perfect use of his perfect memory we should work hard to
try to do so in fact we're going to discuss four ways in which Jehovah uses his memory that we
would do well to imitate now the first one let's identify what it is and you dear Gilead
students if you really work in these four areas it will help you in your assignments but now go to
Hebrews chapter six please and let's read verse number 10 it says for God is not unrighteous so
as to forget your work and the love you showed for his name by ministering and continuing to minister
to the holy ones so you notice according to this scripture Jehovah does not forget he always
remembers our love for him and our hard work in behalf of kingdom interest in fact the insight book
an individual's record of fine works are like riches deposited with a creator in heaven
so if you think about it every time that you go out in the ministry attend a meeting help build a
kingdom hall unselfishly help someone in need it's like you make a deposit in that great heavenly
Jehovah's memory and he never forgets it and he shows his appreciation how so well he remembers
to hear our prayers he remembers to give us holy spirit he remembers to rescue us from anything
that could harm us spiritually but now the question how can we imitate this first example of Jehovah's
use of memory well as Jehovah doesn't forget our love for him our hard work we don't want to forget
Jehovah's love for us and his hard work in our behalf he works so tirelessly you could say in our
behalf doesn't he as we said remembering our prayers giving us holy spirit helping us we don't
want to forget that especially we want to remember all the times Jehovah's helped us in the past
and we know he's not going to abandon us now he's going to help us now we want to be like David
he said Jehovah who rescued me from the claws of the lion and the bear he is the one who will
rescue me from the hand of this Philistine he remembered how Jehovah always helped him he knew
Jehovah would help him now in extended application we don't want to take for granted the hard work
and the love that others are showing for Jehovah and we want to from time to time commend him and
support them the hardworking elders hardworking ministerial servants of pioneers parents trying to
raise their children properly children trying to keep their integrity to Jehovah see take note of
that remember that commend and support but now let's get a second way that Jehovah uses his
memory let's go to Luke chapter 20 and verse number 28 or verse 38 it is it says he is a god not of
the dead but of the living for they are all living to him now what do we learn well Jehovah completely
remembers faithful ones who have died they're living in his memory and appropriately these ones
are referred to as being in the memorial tombs because Jehovah's memory is involved now how can we
imitate this example of Jehovah's use of memory well we don't want to forget these faithful ones
who have died either and we have a lot of life stories for example in our publications to help us
remember them and they're good qualities they're good examples that we can keep learning from for
example former members of the governing body such as brother Klein other members of the anointed
or ones of the anointed sister Gertrude pet singer George Lindell Bennett Brickle ones that had the
earthly hope life stories about them for the George couch Max Max Larson Robert Walent and of
course the Bible as you know contains numerous examples of ones who have died that we don't want
to forget we want to keep reading about them meditating on their example and learning from them
well let's get a third way now that Jehovah uses his memory let's go to Joshua chapter 21
and we'll read verse 45 Joshua 21 verse 45
not a promise failed out of all the good promises that Jehovah had made to the house of Israel
all of them came true now this scripture and several others shows Jehovah never forgets his promises
he remembers them and he fulfills all of his promises doesn't he in contrast speaking of politicians
one writer made a comment they promised the moon but once they get into office they do well to
deliver a moon beam well others have what has been labeled selective memory or selective amnesia
has been labeled see regarding promises they've made but not Jehovah and of course as Jehovah's
children we want to imitate him remember our promises what promise especially our dedication promise
in our dedication vow we promise to do Jehovah's will unreservedly we promised that we would put
Jehovah's will ahead of our own will that's what we promised and what what is the duration of this
promise this most important promise we ever made well forever what if we die we're resurrected
well you're gonna have to get rebabtized when you're resurrected or rededicate your life
did you know your dedication baptism endure even death and resurrection so he expects this to
to fulfill that promise we have made now those of us that are married he expects us to fulfill
our marriage vows maybe we've made other promises to Jehovah for example here at Gilead school
you may have made promises to Jehovah well he expects us to remember and fulfill those promises
but now let's get one more way a fourth way Jehovah uses his memory let's go to Isaiah 43 please
and this scripture will help us identify it Isaiah 43 verse 25 Jehovah says I am the one
who is blotting out your transgressions for my own sake and I will not remember your sins now very
interesting when Jehovah forgives us in he refuses to remember he to recall it to ever
hold that sin against the person say he chooses not to remember that sin the watchtower some years
ago said Jehovah quote will never call to mind our forgiven sins now that's amazing use of memory
isn't truly amazing why does Jehovah choose you could say to delete our forgiven sins well is it
because he wants to make more room in his memory no Jehovah has unlimited memory doesn't
he calls all the trillions of stars by name I have a hard time calling by name the some 20 commenters
at the Monday night Bethel family watchtower study Jehovah remembers in full detail the billions
who are in the memorial tunes so memory capacity is not the problem isn't Jehovah forgives
and forgets because of his love and mercy but now how can we imitate Jehovah here well we want to
work hard to freely forgive as Jehovah does but then we want to work hard to try to delete that
forgiven sin from our memories how do you delete something from your memory well you refuse to
replay it reveal it in contrast if you want to remember something you you do review it don't you
like if you want to remember someone's name you you keep repeating that to yourself you want to
remember a scripture a word in a language you're trying to learn on the other hand if you don't
want to remember something you refuse to replay it you dismiss that thought like an immoral
thought as an example the same way with forgiven sins we refuse to replay them we do our best as
second Corinthians 10 five says to bring every thought into captivity make it obedient to the Christ
well we have four ways Jehovah uses his memory there we've now discussed did you get them
he remembers our love for him and our hard work in behalf of kingdom interest we want to
remember his love hard work in our behalf and it by extension the love and hard work of others
too he never forgets faithful ones who have died well we don't want to forget them either by means
of the Bible by means of life stories we can remember these ones and learn from them three he
always remembers his promises and fulfills them we want to do the same for he chooses not to remember
completely forget our forgiven sins we want to work hard to do the same thing may we remember
to forget you have to think about that well likely you can think of other aspects of Jehovah's
use of memory that would be worthy of imitation in fact i'm going to give you students that as a
homework assignment come up with some other examples of how Jehovah uses his memory that we can imitate
and i'll get you started Psalm 103 14 says Jehovah remembers that we are dust now how can we imitate
that aspect of Jehovah's memory now you're used to homework assignments you've had them for five
months now you have another assignment but may Jehovah bless each of you dear ones as you strive with
the help of Holy Spirit to imitate Jehovah's use of memory well we sincerely thank you brother
led for that fine talk and you can be certain that we will remember it well next we're privileged to
hear from brother saki mirei a helper to the writing committee of the governing body
brother mirei is going to speak to us on the subject with the measure that you measure out
we know that you as students truly appreciate the privilege to go through Gilead to learn so many
things and during this time you have been given many things many gifts as it were
and we know this scripture says every good and perfect gift comes from Jehovah
but now how should we view this gift that you have received the Bible helps us in a very
interesting way in Ephesians chapter 4 Ephesians chapter 4 and it says here in verse 7 now undeserved
kindness was given to each one of us according to how the Christ measured out the free gift so it is
a free gift we didn't earn it we didn't deserve it but nevertheless it came from the Christ and he
measured it out to us very kindly measured it out to us now what is the purpose of this gift
why did we get this gift he goes on to explain here in chapter 4 verse 8 that he turns these individuals
that receive these gifts into gifts they become gifts of men and now we look at verse 10
what is the purpose is so that he might give fullness to all things now Christ gives out this gift in
many different ways many different manifestations of his gift for instance looking at verse 11 some
apostles prophets evangelizers shepherds and teachers the purpose that each of these gifts
will share what they have in order to help every member of the congregation if you look here
on verses 12 and 13 we read from the last part of verse 12 to build up the body of the Christ
until we all attain to the oneness of the faith and of the accurate knowledge of the Son of God
to being a full grown man attaining the measure of stature that belongs to the fullness of the Christ
this is wonderful isn't it just to think that Christ Jesus has given you this wonderful gift
this ability to build up the rest of the congregation that is your obligation and your responsibility
in 1st Peter chapter 4 and verse 10 an additional aspect about this gift is given to us
let us read that 1st Peter chapter 4 and verse 10 it says to the extent that each one has received the
gift use it in ministering to one another as fine stewards of God's undeserved kindness
that is expressed in various ways so this is our opportunity to use this gift as a distributor
an administrator of God's undeserved kindness but this gift is very different from a normal gift
that we would receive why would this gift be different normally when you get a gift what do you
do you look at this gift and you think I wonder what's in it I wonder if I'm going to like it I wonder
how I will use it that's normally the case but with this gift we receive we receive the gift
and we just simply give it on without opening the gift this is our obligation with this gift
we've received Christ Jesus helps us to understand how to administer this gift and we turn to Luke
chapter 6 verses 32 to 37 Luke 6 starting with verse 32 if you love those loving you
of what credit is it to you for even the sinners love those loving them and if you do good to those
doing good to you of what credit is it to you even the sinners do the same also if you lend to those
from whom you expect repayment of what credit is it to you even sinners lend to sinners so that they
may get back as much on the contrary continue to love your enemies and to do good and to lend
without hoping for anything back and your reward will be great and you will be sons of the most
high for he is kind toward the unthankful and wicked continue being merciful just as your father
is merciful moreover stop judging and you will by no means be judged and stop condemning and you
will by no means be condemned keep on forgiving and you will be forgiven so we cannot be judges
of those to whom we give the gift we are not judges we are not condemning people our whole purpose
of administering this gift that we've received is to do so without any prejudice
we do not judge the worthiness of the recipient we only take on our responsibility our dignity that
we have been given by Jehovah that of passing on the gift the second part apart from being
completely unprejudiced the second part as we must give freely and generously now we get to verse
37 excuse me verse 38 practice giving and people will give to you they will pour into your laps of
fine measure press down shaken together and overflowing for with the measure that you are measuring
out they will measure out to you in return so Jehovah God is extremely generous he makes the
sun shine and the rain come upon righteous and the unrighteous and as Paul says he himself
gives life and breath and all things to everyone and Jehovah is very interested in how we administer
the gifts given into our hand that's why he says with a measure you measure out he is very
interested to see whether we do so very carefully this is like the example of parents that train their
children to make a contribution that the kingdom all they give the child a little bit of money
and they tell him go and put it in the contribution box now he expects the child to go and put it in
the contribution box right not to keep it for himself you doesn't also doesn't expect the child to
collect all the contributions over a long period of time and then go make some big donation no
the parents are actually giving the contribution and they expect their child to do it the way they
tell them take it go and put it in the contribution box now and so it is with Jehovah he is giving us
this gift that we need pass it on it is not for us to look and to hold onto this gift so here's
the lesson be careful very careful that you do not control the gift that Jehovah gives you too
closely remember the gift has to be passed on otherwise we will lose Jehovah's favor we cannot
bury the talent in the ground as it were we receive it we must spend it as much as we treasure it
we cannot hold onto it and so now we come to the key statement here with a measure you are
measuring out makes us sons of the most high we cannot be more generous than Jehovah but does
your generosity match the generosity of Jehovah in your case generosity has to become a habit for
us a way of life and here's another very important aspect Jehovah's giving not just anything he gives
the very best he doesn't hold back he gives us the very best let us read these most profound words
in Romans chapter 8 and in verse 32 since he did not even spare his own son but handed him over
for us all will he not also along with him kindly it gives us all other things
so Jehovah gives it all principle for us with a measure we measure out it will be measured out to us
this is an eternal truth we can count on it you've been given much don't hold back give it all
give your best the benefit is not in using the gift the benefit is in giving the gift
for with a measure you measure out it will be measured out to you and we thank you very much
brother Marie for the beautiful gift that you gave us now we're looking forward to hearing from
another helper to the writing committee brother Robert Soranco he's going to speak to us today
on the theme is it all about you it is a rare privilege to be invited to attend the Watchtower
Bible School of Gilead and and at 74 year history only about 9,000 students have graduated from
this school well now at its current pace of two classes a year how long do you think it would
take for all 67,000 special full-time servants in the world to be able to attend Gilead over 600
years so we rejoice with you students for having been able to enjoy this excellent privilege
but now we have to be cautious when we think about the word privilege one dictionary says it is a
right that is given to some people and not to others so if not careful we could wrongly assume
that receiving this or certain other privileges in Gilead's organization somehow elevates us
above the rest of Jehovah's faithful servants and then by thinking that we could start to believe
that it is all about us but is it the same dictionary says that privilege can also mean a special
opportunity to do something and that is what we need to focus on whenever we receive a privilege in
God's service the opportunity it gives us to serve there was an incident with Jesus Apostles at
Nicely Illustrates this if you open your Bibles please to Matthew the 19th chapter Matthew chapter
19 and keep your Bibles open there it was the year 33 of our common era just days before Jesus
life in ministry would come to an abrupt end he and his disciples were traveling to Jerusalem for
the Passover and a rich young ruler runs up to Jesus and asks what he has to do to gain everlasting
life and Jesus explained but the wealthy man was dismayed when he found out that he would have to
sell his belongings give to the poor and follow Christ well taking this all in one of Jesus
Apostles pointed out that they had given up their former vocations to follow Christ this is
Matthew 19 verse 27 then Peter said in reply look we have left all things and followed you what
then will there be for us in modern parlance Peter was asking what's in it for us well Jesus
doesn't leave them wondering because in verse 28 he promises them that when he gets in his kingdom
they eventually will sit on thrones with him and you can be sure that that prospect really stuck
in their minds and they must have dwelled on it as they continued on their journey to Jerusalem
but a short time later look at what happens in Matthew chapter 20 verse 20
then the mother of the sons of Zebedee approached him with her sons doing obeisance
and asking for something from him he said to her what do you want
she replied to him give the word that these two sons of mine may sit down one at your right hand
and one at your left in your kingdom well James and John probably put their mother up to that
and how clever they must have thought they were that they got to Jesus with their requests before
Peter or the others did and what was the reaction of the rest look at verse 24 when the 10 others
heard about it they became indignant at the two brothers they were upset with James and John
for trying to reserve for themselves the best thrones in the kingdom and they probably also wish
they had thought the idea first well even before this we know the apostles had argued among themselves
as to which one was the greatest so do you see what their problem was it was all about them
these 12 men already enjoyed the special privilege of having been chosen to be an apostle of Christ
they were told of a future amazing privilege to sit on the thrones in the heavenly kingdom
and now they're trying to secure something even more for themselves and what must have made this
especially disheartening to Jesus is what occurred just moments before look at verse 17
while going up to Jerusalem Jesus took the twelve disciples aside privately and said to them on the
road look we are going up to Jerusalem and the son of man will be handed over to the chief priests
and the scribes they will condemn him to death and hand him over to men of the nations to be mocked
and scourged and executed on a stake with all that Jesus had on his mind preparing himself
mentally and emotionally for what they had the last thing he should have been troubled with
was the apostles posturing themselves for some sort of greatness but Jesus patiently took them
aside to impress upon them the right attitude verse 25 but Jesus called them to him and said
you know that the rulers of the nations lorded over them and the great men wheeled authority over
them this must not be the way among you but whoever wants to become great among you must be your
minister and whoever wants to be first among you must be your slave just as the son of man came
not to be ministered to but to minister and to give his life as a ransom in exchange for many
yes when Jesus came to earth it was to minister it was to serve others he was not aspiring to
any positions of honor or prestige and Jesus disciples needed that same disposition they needed
to appreciate that the greatest person in the kingdom must be the one who humbly serves others
you see Jehovah bestows privileges on us not to give us some sense of entitlement
but to create opportunities for us to be more useful in our service to God
to show that Jesus really meant what he said notice what happened next and by now there within
a day's journey of Jerusalem verse 29 as they were going out of Jericho a large crowd followed him
and looked to blind men sitting beside the road heard that Jesus was passing by and cried out
lord have mercy on a son of David but the crowd rebuked them telling them to keep silent
yet they cried all the louder saying lord have mercy on a son of David
so Jesus stopped called them and said what do you want me to do for you they said to him lord let
our eyes be open moved with pity Jesus touched their eyes and immediately they recover their
sight and they followed him imagine again how much was weighing on Jesus's heart at that very
moment you see he knew he was about to enter the final week of his earthly life that
intense suffering and a cruel death awaited him and that his integrity to God was going to be put
on the line and yet he does not ignore the insistent cries of these desperate men
did you notice on verse 32 what Jesus asked the two blind men he said what do you want
me to do for you now what might we be tempted to say if we see someone approaching us
and wanting to ask a favor or our help for something well if we suspect that the request will be
too distasteful or time consuming to fulfill we might want to reserve for ourselves the opportunity
to delegate the task to someone else so we might just say what do you want but not Jesus
and on ever so many occasions he was deeply moved to serve the needs of others because it was never
all about him what a good lesson for us always to imitate you see we can approach life expecting
to be a personal privilege or like Christ we can use the opportunities we are given to serve and
whatever capacity we are allowed to do that in Jehovah's organization and for you dear
members of the one hundred forty second class of Gilead we believe that you were already manifesting
that Christ-like spirit in your assignment and that's why you were chosen to attend this one
hundred forty second class of Gilead never lose that spirit now soon you're going to go off with
diploma in hand aren't you maybe to take on even more responsibility than you had before
and Jehovah has reserved a place for you to serve him in his organization we are confident you
will remember it has not been all about you rather it has been about how you will use the fine
education you have received now at Gilead as an opportunity to continually humbly serving others
and for that Jehovah will richly bless you we thank you very much brother Sarenko for those very
heartwarming and very meaningful thoughts well now we're going to begin to hear some comments and
thoughts from the instructors of the Gilead school first we're going to hear from brother William
Samuelson he's going to speak to us on the subject perfected into one some years ago back in the
1700s Thomas Payne an American writer said it's not in numbers but in unity that great strength lies
well that reminded me of a medical emergency that arose at a district convention some years ago
a brother leaving the stadium got to the sidewalk and fell to the ground or to the sidewalk
apparently with a heart attack or possibly a stroke two ambulances eventually arrived and the
two drivers got into a heated argument over who had the authority or jurisdiction to transport
our brother to the nearest emergency ward well what was it that kept these two drivers from being
effective at their job was a lack of unity so thinking how can you promote unity in your job
in your assignment that you'll be going to well there are many number of ways and the list that
I'm going to give you is just three and it is by no means exhaustive good communication avoid
promoting a personal agenda and if given oversight work within the boundaries of the assignment
and work hard to be skilled at it good communication at the time of the emergency that I just
mentioned an unauthorized person called 911 now that lack of communication the unauthorized
person really should have communicated with the attendance already on duty assigned to that
particular job there were EMTs there but he saw what he thought was a serious situation called 911
now that resulted in 911 sending the second ambulance we'll talk about that a little later
got to thinking about a Bible account a huge project that failed because of lack of communication
now you probably think of any number and the one I'm going to talk about we usually think of
in a negative way but turned to Genesis chapter 11 and we're going to look at verses six through
eight particularly they won't read all of it but just a few little excerpts from it
in verse five Jehovah went down to see the city and the tower the city and tower of Bable they had a
project Jehovah said look they are one people they're united one language and this is what they've
started to do now nothing that they have in mind will be impossible for them because they had
communication they were able to understand each other so Jehovah confused their languages but now
notice in verse eight he scattered them over the entire face of the earth and they gradually left
off building the tower because they couldn't communicate the project failed well when we examine
our own situation the scriptures tell us Paul wrote to the Philippians look out not only for your
own interests but also for the interests of others how will you know what is in the best
interests of others if you don't communicate with them if you don't talk to them if you don't
find out what their preferences are they're thinking their abilities and once you find out what
these are then you act in harmony with that and you look for their interests rather than your own
the second point avoid promoting a personal agenda personal agenda was defined this way in one
publication an ambitious scheme or plan of action designed to make things work out for your benefit
or your convenience or so that you can gain control control seems to sometimes be a dominant thing
well in our initial illustration or example our two drivers both had a personal agenda the first
ambulance had been radioed for and was on site because it had been employed by the convention
it was there for just such an emergency and obviously that driver felt that he had jurisdiction
but you remember our unauthorized brother called 911 now 911 dispatched an ambulance and our
brother had collapsed on the sidewalk so he felt because it wasn't inside the stadium it was on
the sidewalk and because he had been dispatched by 911 he had jurisdiction so the two of them had
their own agenda of course our four brothers laying here not knowing what's happening to him
well I got to thinking about others in the Bible that have gone out for their own agenda Satan
obviously tops the list he had an agenda he wanted to worship but what about Kora,
Nathan the Byron if you turn to numbers chapter 16 8 down through 11 but we're not going to read
all of that you remember the account in fact I think you studied it in detail but in verse 8
Moses said to Kora listen please you sons of Levi does it seem to you such a little thing
that the God of Israel has separated you from the assembly of Israel and allowed you to approach him
in order to perform the service of Jehovah's Tabernacle and to stand before the assembly in other
words you've been given a special privilege now does that seem like such a little thing to you
in verse 10 he said so that you also must try to secure the priesthood well if you think about
this matter of a personal agenda in your assignments you can contribute much to the unity of the
group you're with the branch the department but if you start thinking about how this is going to
give honor and glory to you you could start thinking about getting as much responsibility as you can
working for your own interests rather than the interests of others getting or developing a personal
agenda so in addition to the special privileges you have and full-time service must you also try to
get something else try to get something greater two others that fell victim to this were James
and John turned to the book of Mark and again we're just going to glance at a couple of
the scriptures a couple of the verses here you remember and the brothers wrinkle already commented on
this account and James and John and one kind of said they got their mother to do it but you know
they knew Jesus knew he answered them and they said teacher verse 35 chapter 10 teacher we want you to
do for us whatever we ask of you we have got a personal agenda we want to sit in your right hand
and on your left we want to have honor we want to have authority you say we want this well without
doing all of the details here verse 41 what did it do to the unity of the group of the 12
verse 41 when the 10 others heard about it they became indignant at James and John
yeah it didn't help the unity of the group with a personal agenda and so it is with you
if you promote a personal agenda it's not going to help the unity of the department or the branch
that you're serving with might think in conclusion of an illustration of an orchestra
before a performance all of the instruments in an orchestra generally adjust to a single pitch
one generated sometimes by an electronic tone generator now once they have been tuned to a single
tone all of the instruments are automatically tuned to each other and so it is if you listen to
the one tone you will all be tuned together you remember Jesus in his prayer to his father in
John 17 before his death he prayed that they would be in union that they would be together as one
if you turn to John 17 and verse 21 he said so that they may all be one in his prayer to his father
just as you father are in union with me in other words in united one that they also may be in
union with us so that the world may believe that you sent me but now drop down to verse 23
in union with them and you I in union with them and you in union with me in order that they
may be perfected into one now notice the footnote on perfected into one it says or be
completely unified so for stability in the branch the department whatever your assignment is unity
is a must has to be just as you've done for the past 20 weeks we encourage you to continue
to work together united perfectly completely united perfected into one as Gilead graduates
make sure you do your part to help your brothers and sisters become perfected into one
we thank you very much brother Samuelson for those very practical comments I know the students
are going to benefit from them well now we're looking forward to hearing a talk from another of
our Gilead instructors brother Mark new mayor his theme for us today is see the cause
well this is a time of great change of for Jehovah's people and you students have seen it firsthand
by being invited to Gilead in fact some of you will receive a change of assignment
after Gilead and still others might receive a change in their circumstances once they get
back to their branch territory so change will be a part of your life and although change can
be good many find unexpected change stressful or even unsettling we may find ourselves asking
why me and that question is not a sign of weak faith rather it is healthy to ask why because
when you ask the question why you usually begin to explore the cause behind the change
now a careful study of Bible history reveals that Jehovah God is a master of change he loves change
in fact when we studied the new world translation appendix a4 what did we learn we learned
that Jehovah causes or sets in motion anything he wants to happen in order to fulfill his purpose
now we might accept that Jehovah permits this or that when it comes to problems in this imperfect
system of things and perhaps situations that ones go through because of imperfection true
but what about when adjustments are made within Jehovah's Theocratic organization now what
if we have a difficult time adjusting to a change because it doesn't match our thinking
should we automatically conclude that Jehovah is simply permitting this change
or is he in fact causing it to happen well I want to consider two Bible accounts with you
that's going to help answer that question first one second Chronicles chapter 11 this setting
is when the ten tribes withdrew their support from Rehoboam they made Jeroboam their king
Rehoboam wanted those ten tribes back no doubt thinking they have no right to break away
who do they think they are in fact breaking away or splitting the 12 tribes would only create
an abrupt change to a stable arrangement which originated with God since the days of Moses
I want them back this was unexpected unsettling for Rehoboam
and then Jehovah God sends his prophet Shemaya to Rehoboam second Chronicles chapter 11 let's
read verse 4 this is what Jehovah says you must not go up and fight against your brothers Rehoboam
each of you return to his house for I Jehovah have caused this to happen I have caused this to happen
Rehoboam I have caused this split to happen Rehoboam I caused it and anything that I caused can only
have good results it's going to be good I cause it it's going to be good and we too can discern
the possible benefits of this split think about it individual Israelites in either kingdom now
would have an opportunity to demonstrate if they would personally uphold true worship at the
temple regardless of which king was ruling and regardless of which territory they lived in
Jehovah's patience is mercy his protection will be magnified as he now dealt with two kingdoms
instead of one but we may wonder since Jehovah caused this why did the apostasy occur afterwards
well Jehovah intended this this split to be a mere governmental division in organizational
adjustment not a departure from true worship as centered at the temple in Jerusalem
if Jeroboam had continued faithful that separate kingdom of Israel would have continued right
alongside the kingdom of Judah they would have worked together to honor and praise Jehovah God
that would have been wonderful Jehovah would have made sure of that so Jehovah didn't cause the
apostasy these problems or human flaws resulted when Rehoboam and Jeroboam failed to
see that Jehovah expected obedience no matter where they lived that's the point they failed to
cooperate with the new reality and reap the benefits from what Jehovah was causing to happen
so what first lesson do we want you to think about to learn to have etched into your memory
when Jehovah causes a change it can only be for the good all we need to do is cooperate with
the change and see the cause or see what Jehovah is setting in motion and then look to him for a
blessing on the outcome see this divine precedent teaches us that it is vital for you for me vital
to distinguish the perfect cause of Jehovah from the imperfect flaws of humans who failed to
cooperate with what Jehovah God is doing that's point number one let's go on to our second example
this one has to do with Joseph the setting is when Joseph was in Egypt and he's making himself known
to his brothers Genesis chapter 45 let's open our Bibles there chapter 45 verse seven notice what
Joseph says to his brothers how he words this but God sent me ahead of you sent me ahead of you
in order to preserve for you a remnant there was a purpose on the earth and to keep you alive by a
great deliverance do we see that Jehovah didn't merely permit him to go to Egypt but he caused Joseph
to go to Egypt I sent you I caused you to go ahead to preserve a remnant you see Joseph's arrival in
Egypt was part of Jehovah's purpose in creating the conditions that would result in preserving the
offspring that would lead to the Messiah however Jehovah causing a change at times the consequences
of that change are not what we expect and that's what we have to think about he causes the change
but the consequences might not but what be what we expect for example think about Joseph he
becomes a slave didn't expect that went to prison I don't expect this I'm initially I'm treated
severely I didn't like that see Joseph suffered many human injustices or flaws along the way
now he could have easily resisted proudly reason now hold on here me a slave a slave the prophetic
dreams I received as a young man indicated that others would bow down to me I don't see anyone
bowing down to me I'm bowing down to others as a slave this doesn't make sense this is not turning
out the way I have expected or preferred in fact some 13 years would pass before Joseph would
experience relief the changes in his life are unexpected unclear and unsettling but he didn't ask
Jehovah what are you doing to me rather he humbly asked what are you doing with me
so unlike proud Reha Bohm and Jeroboam Joseph could see the cause what Jehovah was setting in motion
not the human flaws he could discern the special work to which he had been appointed
why he even reassured his brothers that Jehovah had directed and caused his relocation to Egypt
and it served for the preservation of his family and for all the families of the earth he got that
and what's the lesson you really need to think about our personal response personal response
to what Jehovah causes reveals a lot about our humility and our patience our attitude our
response can lead to a spiritual fall or success now let's get specific with you how can you
apply this there may be a time when organizational adjustments make it seem that Jehovah has
handcuffed your talents clipped your wings and maybe this adjustment that you're undergoing it just
doesn't match your thinking what are you going to do then now what happens don't let pride get in the
way if you let pride get in the way you could actually delay the fruitage of organizational decisions
and that's not what you've been trained to do at Gilead it's just the opposite we've talked for
months about how you need to get on board with the with the organization direction but now imagine
if you begin to doubt that instruction from headquarters don't really apply to to our country
oh these instructions they won't work here oh they we're different we do things different the
brothers in New York they really not they don't understand our circumstances we should apply it
in a different way you see what have you just done if that type of thinking begins to take root
you will only hesitate to implement or have heartedly support the direction received and that's
not what you've been trained to do so you understand how this might apply in the future and voicing such
doubts can only create an unhealthy spirit and weaken your brothers instead try to see what
Jehovah is really causing to happen what is he causing to happen Jehovah God is training you to
better refine such qualities as obedience and patience and loyalty so that you can be used that
much more for Jehovah's purpose honoring glory for your spiritual health you want to view decisions
as from Jehovah causing his will to take place even if it is not convenient or you don't immediately
discern the real benefits there is no spiritual risk in whole heartedly supporting decisions made by
Jehovah's spirit directed organization see the cause not the flaws there's plenty of human
flaws to concentrate on get away from that see what Jehovah's setting in motion once you see it
help others to see it like Joseph use your words to reassure and strengthen your brothers and
then you know what you'll become a part of what will you become a part of as brothers Anderson said
that Gilead legacy so stay with that understanding stay with that attitude stay with that motive
let's distill our discussion down to three points one be careful not to assume that Jehovah's
permitting just permitting an organizational adjustment when in reality he is far more likely
causing it to happen too when Jehovah causes a change it can only be for good and three don't be
quick to see the human flaws it takes patience and humility to work along with Jehovah God as he
progressively causes his purpose to go forward your maturity your love for Jehovah God his way of
doing things has been clearly manifest while you've attended Gilead school and that's why Jehovah
God loves you that's why we love you so maintain this spirit as you work along with God's unfolding
purpose for it is this attitude that will lead to your spiritual success it is this attitude that
will help you to continue to see the cause well we thank you very much brother new mayor for that
excellent discourse well now you have an opportunity to participate in the program
if you'd like to stand if you're able we're going to sing song number 84 which is entitled
reaching out song 84